My name is Aaron Rosenzweig. I live in Westleigh, where you want to install 3 thirty-foot tall cell towers on our front lawns. 

I’m not asking you, I’m telling you to put an immediate 6 month moratorium on all cell tower deployments in the city thus buying us time to correct our ordinances. 

The new language will make it extremely difficult to install cell towers in neighborhoods. It will explicitly state that when it does happen, the towers must be made to look exactly like the Bradford Pear tree. The most common tree planted in our rights of way genetically engineered by the University of Maryland. The language will also say that providers will change the color of the artificial leaves to match the seasons.

Most importantly it will read:

An application for a wireless communication facility exception shall be granted if-and-only-if the following criteria are met: 

1) The exception is consistent with the purpose of the development standard for which the exception is sought.

2) Based on a visual analysis, the design minimizes the visual impacts to residential zones through mitigating measures, including, but not limited to, building heights, bulk, color, and landscaping.

3) The applicant demonstrates the following: 

3a) A significant gap in the coverage, capacity, or technologies of the service network exists such that users are regularly unable to connect to the service network, or are regularly unable to maintain a connection, or are unable to achieve reliable wireless coverage within a building; 

3b) The gap can only be filled through an exception to one or more of the standards in this chapter; and

3c) The exception is narrowly tailored to fill the service gap such that the wireless communication facility conforms to this chapter’s standards to the greatest extent possible.

4) Exceptions in Residential Zones. For a new tower proposed to be located in a residential zone or within 200 feet of a residential zone, unless the proposal qualifies as a preferred location on City-owned or operated property or facilities, the applicant must also demonstrate that the manner in which it proposes to fill the significant gap in coverage, capacity, or technologies of the service network is the least intrusive on the values that this chapter seeks to protect.

200 feet is a reflection of our city’s historical values. Our predecessors clearly stated that no reasonable person could be offended by the sound of rooster from 200 feet away. Do you expect us to believe cell towers can’t transmit further than a 4 lbs animal? It’s laughable. 

There are 207 homes in Westleigh. Against all odds we stand up to say “Cockle-doodle-do.” You, the city council, represent 60,000 citizens yet you far too easily bend over as if to say “any-cock-will-do.” 